### Stepper motor and belt and pulley set

If you are planning on building a system which enables you to remotely focus your camera or even use some sort of autofocus solution, you will need a way to turn your lens (that's how you focus, by turning your lens and actually screwing it further in or further out).

A very reliable way of doing this is with the help of a [stepper motor](https://titanastro.com/store/28BYJ48-5V-Stepper-motor-p692220361). A stepper motor is not a regular electric motor, but a motor which moves in predefined small steps. The great advantage is that we can count the steps in one direction and return to our starting position by executing the same amount of steps in the opposite direction. 

In our experience we have found that the most reliable and precise manner of connecting this stepper motor to your lens is with a [belt and pulleys](https://titanastro.com/store/GT2-Focus-Kit-Pulleys-and-belt-p696697425). This further reduces the steps of the stepper motor for additional precision, is easy to install and durable.

As with any mechanical moving system, our belt and pulley solution has backlash. Backlash is the 'free play' in the mechanical setup, in the sense that no mechanical connection is 100% accurate. To illustrate: as we move our lens in one direction a few dozens of steps and next we decide we need to move in the other direction, it will take a determined number of steps before the lens actually starts to move in the opposite direction. This is because there is a little bit of space between the teeth of the pulleys and the belt, because the belt might be a bit loose or any number of reasons. This is not a problem, most of the times. We can simply count the number of steps we need to do before the lens starts moving again and record this number. We'll call this the steps needed to get out of the backlash and we can tell our software to remember that backlash and apply these extra steps each time we change the direction of movement of our lens.
